Peer Graded Assignment: Running a Chi-Square Test of Independence
Submit by July 10, 11:59 PM PDT

Important Information
It is especially important to submit this assignment before the deadline, July 10, 11:59 PM PDT, because it must be graded by others. If you submit late, there may not be enough classmates around to review your work. This makes it difficult - and in some cases, impossible - to produce a grade. Submit on time to avoid these risks.

Instructions
The second assignment deals with the Chi-Square Test of Independence. A Chi-Square Test of Independence compares frequencies of one categorical variable for different values of a second categorical variable. The null hypothesis is that the relative proportions of one variable are independent of the second variable; in other words, the proportions of one variable are the same for different values of the second variable. The alternate hypothesis is that the relative proportions of one variable are associated with the second variable. Note that if your research question only includes quantitative variables, you can categorize those just to get some practice with the tool.

Review criteria
Run a Chi-Square Test of Independence.

You will need to analyze and interpret post hoc paired comparisons in instances where your original statistical test was significant, and you were examining more than two groups (i.e. more than two levels of a categorical, explanatory variable).
Note: although it is possible to run large Chi-Square tables (e.g. 5 x 5, 4 x 6, etc.), the test is really only interpretable when your response variable has only 2 levels (see Graphing decisions flow chart in Bivariate Graphing chapter).

WHAT TO SUBMIT:
Following completion of the steps described above, create a blog entry where you submit syntax used to run a Chi-Square Test (copied and pasted from your program) along with corresponding output and a few sentences of interpretation.

Review Criteria
Your assessment will be based on the evidence you provide that you have completed all of the steps. In all cases, consider that the peer assessing your work is likely not an expert in the field you are analyzing.